hey it's me Destin welcome to this week
and smarter every day today we're going
to try to figure something out that I've
always wondered what happens when you
shoot a pistol underwater yeah I think
the revolvers are going to act a little
different than the semi-automatic
pistols
alright here we are in the field this is
the setup so what we have here is a
revolver in an aquarium that we've been
at a plate-glass of silicone this should
be pretty cool but we're going to film
this with this phantom v10 camera made
by Vision Research we're going to film
it at 2,200 frames per second we've got
about a 40 microsecond exposure time but
in order to get enough light we have to
use this which is a 15 million
candlepower spotlight it should be
pretty cool but the intent here is we're
going to fill this up with water over
the pistol and we're going to see if we
can capture that gas bubble as it comes
between the revolver and the barrel it
should expand and hopefully not blow up
but I'm expecting this to blow up and
immediately after we capture all that
video we're going to compress it into a
pre pretty small format and then we're
going to beam it via this satellite this
straight to the 80s so that my granddad
can I'm just kidding
anyway let's do the shot
one
look as sad as I feel maybe nervous I
really don't want this to blow up
because I don't have money to buy it
again if it does so doing this so you
can learn you don't have to blow your
pistol up
all right let's see if she lived I
really hope so
3 2 1
yeah rigor alright so now let's talk
about the results to my knowledge this
the first time handguns have been
studied like this and there's obviously
a lot of stuff to learn here but I'll
focus on three things that are pretty
simple the first thing is it was pretty
clear that as soon as the hammer struck
the firing pin which hit the primer
there was an out gassing you could
actually see a bubble it's pretty
interesting my assumption is that that's
the seal around the primer breaking down
and causing a little outgassing nothing
really new there the second thing that
we learned is it appears that the
semi-automatic pistol is more efficient
at applying the gases generated by the
cartridge to the back of the bullet
creating more velocity than the revolver
you noticed when the revolver fired
there was this large blast wave that
came out from between the revolver
cylinder and the barrel all that is
wasted energy that could be applied to
increasing the velocity of the round
which wasn't so that was also pretty
interesting now the next thing that we
learned is when the weapon is fired you
see this large blast wave come out the
front of the weapon now the assumption
is or at least the assumption I made to
begin with is that it is a spherical
blast wave it's actually not it's more
like a bagel or a donut it's what's
called a toroidal vortex root were being
torus so if you were to take this and
let's see major all this alright so this
is kind of what's happening here the
gases are coming out from the barrel and
they're going in a loop around the
outside of the bullet toroidal vortex
that's what's going on there anyway
there's a whole lot to learn here I hope
you're getting smarter every day have a
good one